that we could write some more code to perhaps create a document and output all of this
information.
But instead of doing that,
I'm going to show you another feature which will pick up on in the section that will come
to later on debug in an era handling.
And what we're going to do is to go into break mode,
so we'll execute all the lines in our macro and then going to break mode.
Brake mode is a method of Friesen code execution on one of the things that you can do in
the visual basic editor when code execution is frozen is to just hover your mouse over the
names of variables to see what values are currently in those variables.
So rather than bothering to output them,
we can just going to break mode.
And then after all the lines have executed,
we can then just examine the variables.
So in order to ensure that we don't go into break mode before all our variables are
populated,
we need to put our break points on this line because the line that you put the break point
on doesn't itself execute so that it says n sub I put in the break point on that line.
The end sub line will not yet have been executed.
And hence our program Al Macro will still be running to put a break point.
And even if you're not aware of this,
you may well have done it accidentally.
You click on this power next to the appropriate line that dot then appears so.
If you do do this accidentally,
just click again to get rid of it.
Okay,
so we're gonna enter break mode on that just before end in El Bakraoui.
Now we can run our macron,
and here I've just realised I've made an error,
so let's click.
OK?
When I declared my double,
I used the wrong prefix.
I used the prefix for long instead of the prefix a double.
So apologies for that.
I'm just gonna go back and correct that d b l.
And then it's run again.
So nothing happens as far as the interface is concerned.
But each of our little variables now has a value inside it so we can hover over each one
for the document object.
It just shows you basically the name of the document.
Identify it.
Str title.
If we can get over,
that has be be a data types.
And the reason that you don't see the close quotation marks is that it includes the return
at the end of the paragraph.
Then we've got a number of words is 275 number of characters 952 And here we got the single
.
So the diff the main difference between the single and the double is gonna be precision.
So if you count the number of numbers after the decimal,
you'll see it.
Six.
Where is with the D B L?
We'll have 14.
So that's the main difference between single and double.
Then we've got the number of rows and the number of columns in our table in the upcoming
videos.
Within this section,
we'll talk more about working with string variables,
integer and long variables,
single and double variables and date variables.
However,
before finish in this video,
I just wanted to make a couple of points regard in the variant data type.
So let's come out of brake mode.
And to do this,
we click on the reset button just here,
and then we can click on this bullet point just to get rid of our break point.
The variant dated Sybers,
I said,
is really a rapper.
Data type on what you're doing by using the variant data type is instructing Vehbi eh to
make the decisions regarding the type of data that a variable contains.
By doing this,
you're obviously leaving yourself open to the possibility of errors creeping in on
unpredictable results.
So it's always best to explicitly declare the correct data type to reach variable that you
create on those rare occasions where you do have to use a variant,
you declare it in the normal way,
then vnt whatever.
As variant,
however,
those occasions are fairly rare.
So let's get rid of this.
What you should perhaps be aware off at this stage,
it's how you can accidentally end up with a variant data type.
The first thing you could do,
of course,
is not toe have option explicit,
So if option explicit is missing or deleted,
you can then refer to a variable without having previously declare it.
So we could say,
for example,
let I n t cells equal tbl doc Rose brackets worm,
not cells.
Don't count on this is now perfectly legitimate,
and we can prove that by switching on break mode again and just running our code.
Then if we hover over in cells,
weaken,
see?
Yes,
it has got full.
But what's the data type?
Basically,
because we haven't declared it.
The data type is variant.
At the moment.
There's not much risk risk of anything going wrong,
But obviously,
the key point is,
variants are unpredictable.
So that's the first way in which a variant can accidentally creeping.
Let's again reset on switch off the break point.
Let's reinstate option explicit at the top there and perhaps just lose this line.
Another way of accidentally ended up with the variance is where you don't declare the type
.
So if I take off our string,
I haven't broken any rules.
Because all options explicit insists on is that you declare the variable.
It doesnt insist that you declare the type so domestic title is fine.
The fact that it has STRS the prefix is irrelevant.
That's purely for my benefit.
It doesn't have any impact on what BB A does to my variable,
so that's the second way of ending up with a variant data type.
Let's just don't do.
Another way is where you'll declare in several variables of the same time.
But you use the syntax,
which seems logical but isn't let me explain.
So so we had to string variables on to save time.
We wanted to declare them on the same line.
The correct way of doing that is to put comma second variable.
So let's say it's going to be table text,
so str table text as string.
So that's the correct way of declare.
In two or more variables.
You just separate them of commerce,
and you then repeat yourself the full syntax.
But what seems logical,
although it's not,
would be to do this.
So you say to yourself,
Well,
actually,
they're all string variables.
Why don't why do I need to say as string every time?
So you take out all the air strains apart from the very last one,
it takes up less space.
It's less work on DIT compiles with no errors.
However,
what you actually end up with is one string variable,
the one that has as string after its name.
All the other variables on that line will be variant because there's no as,
and there's no data type actually explicitly declared.
So that's another way of ending up with the variant data time.
That's just tidy this up that will get rid of this.
Okay,
so now that we've got an overview of how you work with different data types,
when you declare variables in the upcoming videos,
we'll look in more detail at working with the different data types working with strings,
integers,
longs,
singles,
doubles,
dates,
etcetera.
So let's just close the visual basic editor and close this document.
So word is now gonna ask us whether we want to save this document.
Well,
quick,
yes,
we do save.
But it's also now gonna ask us,
Do we want to save our changes to the template which we attached to this document?
And of course,
we do.
So we click on Save Again.
As well as declaring variables,
it is important to declare the data type of every variable.
Any variable,
which is not declared for whose data type is not declared,
becomes a variant.
Variables of the variant data type,
a slower to process,
use more memory and can lead to erroneous results